menu "Library routines"

config CC_OPTIMIZE_LIBS_FOR_SPEED
	bool "Optimize libraries for speed"
	help
	  Enabling this option will pass "-O2" to gcc when compiling
	  under "lib" directory.

	  If unsure, say N.

config HAVE_PRIVATE_LIBGCC
	bool

config USE_PRIVATE_LIBGCC
	bool "Use private libgcc"
	depends on HAVE_PRIVATE_LIBGCC
	help
	  This option allows you to use the built-in libgcc implementation
	  of U-boot instead of the one privided by the compiler.
	  If unsure, say N.

config SYS_HZ
	int
	default 1000
	help
	  The frequency of the timer returned by get_timer().
	  get_timer() must operate in milliseconds and this option must be
	  set to 1000.

config SYS_VSNPRINTF
	bool "Enable safe version of sprintf()"
	help
	  Since sprintf() can overflow its buffer, it is common to use
	  snprintf() instead, which knows the buffer size and can avoid
	  overflow. However, this does increase code size slightly (for
	  Thumb-2, about 420 bytes). Enable this option for safety when
	  using sprintf() with data you do not control.

config REGEX
	bool "Enable regular expression support"
	default y if NET
	help
	  If this variable is defined, U-Boot is linked against the
	  SLRE (Super Light Regular Expression) library, which adds
	  regex support to some commands, for example "env grep" and
	  "setexpr".

config LIB_RAND
	bool "Pseudo-random library support "
	help
	  This library provides pseudo-random number generator functions.

source lib/dhry/Kconfig

source lib/rsa/Kconfig

config TPM
	bool "Trusted Platform Module (TPM) Support"
	help
	  This enables support for TPMs which can be used to provide security
	  features for your board. The TPM can be connected via LPC or I2C
	  and a sandbox TPM is provided for testing purposes. Use the 'tpm'
	  command to interactive the TPM. Driver model support is provided
	  for the low-level TPM interface, but only one TPM is supported at
	  a time by the TPM library.

menu "Hashing Support"

config SHA1
	bool "Enable SHA1 support"
	help
	  This option enables support of hashing using SHA1 algorithm.
	  The hash is calculated in software.
	  The SHA1 algorithm produces a 160-bit (20-byte) hash value
	  (digest).

config SHA256
	bool "Enable SHA256 support"
	help
	  This option enables support of hashing using SHA256 algorithm.
	  The hash is calculated in software.
	  The SHA256 algorithm produces a 256-bit (32-byte) hash value
	  (digest).

config SHA_HW_ACCEL
	bool "Enable hashing using hardware"
	help
	  This option enables hardware acceleration
	  for SHA1/SHA256 hashing.
	  This affects the 'hash' command and also the
	  hash_lookup_algo() function.

config SHA_PROG_HW_ACCEL
	bool "Enable Progressive hashing support using hardware"
	depends on SHA_HW_ACCEL
	help
	  This option enables hardware-acceleration for
	  SHA1/SHA256 progressive hashing.
	  Data can be streamed in a block at a time and the hashing
	  is performed in hardware.
endmenu

menu "Compression Support"

config LZ4
	bool "Enable LZ4 decompression support"
	help
	  If this option is set, support for LZ4 compressed images
	  is included. The LZ4 algorithm can run in-place as long as the
	  compressed image is loaded to the end of the output buffer, and
	  trades lower compression ratios for much faster decompression.
	  
	  NOTE: This implements the release version of the LZ4 frame
	  format as generated by default by the 'lz4' command line tool.
	  This is not the same as the outdated, less efficient legacy
	  frame format currently (2015) implemented in the Linux kernel
	  (generated by 'lz4 -l'). The two formats are incompatible.

endmenu

config ERRNO_STR
	bool "Enable function for getting errno-related string message"
	help
	  The function errno_str(int errno), returns a pointer to the errno
	  corresponding text message:
	  - if errno is null or positive number - a pointer to "Success" message
	  - if errno is negative - a pointer to errno related message

source lib/efi/Kconfig

endmenu
